Security Technologies for PCs  version:  2/4/2004

After purchase, make sure all of it is installed correctly.
Many different companies make similar products, I could not list them all.
There is also a lot of free downloads on the internet, some have spybots hidden inside.
These are well respected commercial products.  They have also been written and tested.


Safety Practices:
-------------------------
        File Sharing programs like Kazaa and Morpheous.  Do not use them.  
	  They are a massive security whole.
        Keep your web browser up-to-date.
        Do not download software from unknown sources.
        Do not read emails from unknown sources.
        Monitor your children online.
        Search for "computer security online" and look at some of the resources.
        If you give your computer to someone, delete your personal files, 
	  and then bleach the slack space.
        Also delete the files in the temp areas or by a program that does this for you.


Hardware
-------------
Backups information to CDs or DVDs


Hardware Shutoff for Cable/Dsl Modem
        Motorola 5100 Surfboard Cable Modem     www.motorola.com
        If you do not have a button, use the 
  enable/disable toggle inside network connections to turn the internet on/off.


Router with a Firewall that uses NAT &/or SPI           
        Linksys or Netgear Routers              www.linksys.com or www.netgear.com
        Make sure whichever one you get uses the newest bios download.


Wireless Network Security
	  Use the 128-bit encryption
       www.linksys.com/edu/wirelessstandards.asp
      						www.linksys.com/edu/page10.asp
      						www.linksys.com/edu/wpa.asp


Hard Drive Backup with Biometric Security
        Microsolutions                          www.micro-solutions.com


Surge Protector with 1500 Joules &/or 
         Uninterruptable Power Supply with 10 minutes of power
        APC or Tripplite                        www.apc.com or www.tripplite.com


Laptop/Desktop Physical Lock                    www.apc.com or www.targus.com


Computer with Biometric Access Lock             www.apc.com or www.targus.com


Password Protection (free)                      located in your computer BIOS   

Software
-------------
Updated Operating System (Like SP2) (free)           Windows Update  
        Make sure file and print sharing is off.  
  This is inside your OS.

	  Firewall Windows SP2

	  Pop-up Blocker  Google, Sp2, Firefox

	  Delete Cookies and temp files

	  Keep address book separate from other email

	  Change passwords monthly

Internet Security Suites                             www.mcafee.com or www.symantec.com
        Software Firewall with Intrusion Detection   www.pestpatrol.com
        Updated Antivirus               
        Spam Filter             
        Ad/Pop Up Blockers      
        If you have symantec ISS, you can right click (block traffic) 
	  to shutdown internet access.


Spyware Remover                                 www.webroot.com or www.pestpatrol.com
        Do not use Spy Bot Search and Destroy.  It does not work well.
        A lot of people use ad-aware.  The free version does not run continously.  
	  So I don’t recommend it.


Internet Essentials Window Washer/Spysweeper/Personal Favorites/Pop-up Blocker
Window Washer: clean out vulnerable junk files  www.webroot.com
        Slack disk shredder and swapfile shredder
Personal Favorites Security Password Protected
Phishing Blocker                
Download Accerator              


Secure Web Surfing                              www.webroot.com or www.anonymizer.com


Email Certificates (free)                      
	  Usually available through your email browser


Email with Encryption (free download)           www.pgp.com or www.anonymizer.com


Hard Drive Encryption                           www.pgp.com
        PGP
        If you are using NTFS, encryption is included in the system for free.


Hard Drive Rollback Software                    www.symantec.com
        Symantec GoBack


Hardware Backup Software                        www.symantec.com
        Symantec Ghost


Laptop/Desktop Recovery Software with Disk Encryption           
        Cyber Angel                             www.sentryinc.com
        ztrace                                  www.ztrace.com

Free Stuff on the Internet

	For more security, use one computer that is not connected to the internet for 
	Misc work.  Then use a different computer for surfing/emails/chatting/im.

	If you know how to use Linux, you can use that type of machine to surf 
   	and email.

	Browse Smart – Do not go to questionable sites.

	Use Pop-up blockers on various software.


Internet Browser
 
       Firefox is a free browser that is suppose to be very secure.


Firewalls

	Zone Alarm   http://www.zonealarm.com/


Antivirus

	Housecall.trendmicro.com
	Avg   www.grisoft.com
	Avast www.avast.com


AntiSpybot

	Ad-Aware                   http://www.lavasoftusa.com/
	Spybot Search and Destroy  http://www.safer-networking.org/en/index.html


Email

	Gmail with Spam Filter
	Use web-based email instead of an Outlook type of email.
	Be email Savy - Do not open up questionable emails.

